feature/DM-5702/Device-Parameter-User-Docs (#4431)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/device-management-application/managing-device-parameters.md

---
weight: 65
title: Managing parameters
layout: bundle
outputs:
  - html
  - json
sector:
  - device_management
---

{{< c8y-admon-related >}}
* [Device management & connectivity > Device integration > Fragment library > Device Parameters](/device-integration/fragment-library-bundle/device-parameter) explains how to integrate devices with this capability.
{{< /c8y-admon-related >}} 

> ## Introduction to device parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction to Device Parameters
```
Device Parameter(s) is a name and should be capitalised as such. So far I have also tried to keep this consistent in the developer docs

> ## Introduction to device parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Introduction to device parameters {#introduction-to-device-parameters}
```

Basically every IoT device carries some kind of dynamic state. Typical examples are the On/Off state of electromechanical relays, health indicators, for example the battery level, or the status of the network connection.

In addition, most IoT devices are equipped with some sort of configuration options that control the behavior of the device. Examples here include the control of reporting intervals or domain-specific technical configuration options like Modbus registers.

> The **device parameters** feature of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} allow one to conveniently monitor, to inspect and to modify such settings, independent of a particular device implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Device Parameters** feature of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} allow one to conveniently monitor, to inspect and to modify such settings, independent of a particular device implementation.
```

> The **device parameters** feature of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} allow one to conveniently monitor, to inspect and to modify such settings, independent of a particular device implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **device parameters** feature of {{< product-c8y-iot >}} allows you to monitor, inspect, and modify such settings, independent of a particular device implementation.
```

> ### Viewing and modififying device parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Viewing and modififying Device Parameters
```

> ### Viewing and modififying device parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Viewing and modififying device parameters {#viewing-and-modifying-device-parameters}
```

> The **Parameters** tab in the device details shows the list of device parameters for a given device. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Parameters** tab in the device details shows the list of Device Parameters for a given device. 
```

![Parameter Tab - List of parameters](/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-parameters-list.png)

> Each entry in this view can be expanded into a detailed view. In this screen, you can see history of operations used to change this parameter. In addition, you also can investigate the parameter event history that show corresponding value changes. In the depicted example, no recent parameter change event has been recorded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each entry in this view can be expanded into a detailed view. This view shows the history of operations used to change this parameter. You can also investigate the parameter event history that shows corresponding value changes. In the depicted example, no recent parameter change event has been recorded.
```

![Parameter Tab - List of parameters](/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-parameters-detail.png)

> If a parameter can be changed from the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} UI, the correspondig *Edit* button allows the user to set a new parameter value. This will result in a corresponding operation towards the device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} UI supports changing a parameter, the corresponding **Edit** button sets a new parameter value. This results in a corresponding operation towards the device.
```

> ## Modeling device parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Modeling Device Parameters
```

> ## Modeling device parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Modeling device parameters {#modeling-device-parameters}
```

> If the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} UI supports changing a parameter, the corresponding **Edit** button sets a new parameter value. This results in a corresponding operation towards the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the parameter itself is defined as editable and the device supports updating its parameters, the corresponding **Edit** button sets a new parameter value. This results in a corresponding operation towards the device.
```

> In order to manipulate a device state via the Parameters tab the parameter needs to be modeled first as an asset propert in the [Digital Twin Manager (DTM)](/dtm/) application. This happens in the **Property Libary** of DTM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manipulate a device state via the **Parameters** tab, first model the parameter as an asset property in the **Property Library** of the [Digital Twin Manager (DTM)](/dtm/) application.
```

![DTM - Property Libary with Parameters](/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-paramters-dtm-properties-library-new.png)

> The screen above depicts the property libary with the three example parameters from before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The image above depicts the property library with the three example parameters from before.
```

> To model a device parameter, open the **Property Library** of *DTM* and create a new assert property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To model a device parameter, open the **Property Library** of DTM and create a new assert property.
```

> - To create a device parameter that can only be inspected from the UI, set "Applicable To" (Context) to "asset" and "event".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To create a device parameter that can only be inspected from the UI, set **Applicable To** (Context) to "asset" and "event".
```

> - To create device parameter that can be changed using operations, set "Applicable To" (Context) to "asset"," "event" and "operation".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To create device parameter that can be changed using operations, set **Applicable To** (Context) to "asset", "event", and "operation".
```
